iOS Widgets docs (#1177)
home-assistant/companion.home-assistant: docs/integrations/iOS-widgets.md

---
title: "iOS Widgets"
id: ios-widgets
---

# iOS Widgets

> The iOS App comes with several widgets builtin, take a look below on what each one is designed for, also since iOS app release 2025.3 there is now a "Custom Widget" (BETA) option where you can, as the name says, create a customized tile-card-like widget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The iOS App comes with several built-in widgets. And since iOS app release 2025.3, there is now a "Custom Widget" (BETA) option to create a customized tile-card-like widget.
```

> For each widget you can configure by tapping on them while in edit mode, you will be prompted with a few options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each widget comes with a few options. To configure, go into edit mode and tap the widget.
```

Reviewer: ah. I see. I rephrased the suggestion. Better?

> iOS, iPadOS and macOS have different widget sizes available, below you will find which sizes those widgets support from these options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
iOS, iPadOS and macOS have different widget sizes available:
```

- System
  - Small
  - Medium
  - Large
  - Extra large **(macOS)**
- Accessory **(iOS & iPadOS lock screen)**
  - Circular
  - Inline
  - Rectangular

> # Assist In App

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Assist In-App

```

> Open Assist inside the App using the pipeline of your preference, when you add the widget to your Home Screen, tap on it once again to edit the widget, there you see the options available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Assist in-app widget allows you to open Assist inside the App, using the pipeline of your preference.  To edit the widget options, add the widget to your Home Screen and tap on it once again.
```

> ### Available in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Available in

```

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>System small</td>
    <td>Accessory circular</td>
  </tr>
</table>
<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src='/assets/ios/assist-in-app-widget.jpeg' alt="Assist In App Widget" height="300"/></td>
    <td><img src='/assets/ios/assist-in-app-widget-config.jpeg' alt="Assist In App Widget Configuration" height="300"/></td>
  </tr>
</table>

> # Scripts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Scripts

```

> Execute scripts directly from the widget, this widget is available in small, medium, large and extra large (macOS) sizes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Scripts** widget allows you to execute scripts.
```

> In it's configuration dialog you can choose to receive a notification after the script is executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To receive a notification after the script is executed, enable the option in its configuration dialog.
```

> ### Available in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Available in

```

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>System small</td>
    <td>System medium</td>
    <td>System large</td>
    <td>System extra large (macOS)</td>
    <td>Accessory circular</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src='/assets/ios/scripts-widget.jpeg' alt="Scripts Widget" height="300"/></td>
    <td><img src='/assets/ios/scripts-widget-config.jpeg' alt="Scripts Widget Configuration" height="300"/></td>
  </tr>
</table>

> # Sensors

Reviewer: what sizes is the Sensors widget available in? asking because this is mentioned in the other sections

> Display sensors values, it's not realtime though, so consider what kind of information is relevant to be displayed, it is configured to update on the minimum interval iOS allows (~15 minutes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Sensors** widget displays sensor values, using the minimum update interval iOS allows (~15 minutes). Don't use this widget to display data that should show updates in real-time.

```

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src='/assets/ios/sensors-widget.jpeg' alt="Sensors Widget" height="300"/></td>
    <td><img src='/assets/ios/sensors-widget-config.jpeg' alt="Sensors Widget Configuration" height="300"/></td>
  </tr>
</table>

# Open Page
Open any Home Assistant sidebar page.
### Available in
<table>
  <tr>
    <td>System small</td>
    <td>System medium</td>
    <td>System large</td>
    <td>System extra large (macOS)</td>
    <td>Accessory circular</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src='/assets/ios/open-page-widget.jpeg' alt="Open Page Widget" height="300"/></td>
    <td><img src='/assets/ios/open-page-widget-config.jpeg' alt="Open Page Widget Configuration" height="300"/></td>
  </tr>
</table>

# Gauge Widget (Advanced)

> Create a gauge representation using Home Assistant templating **(user needs to be Administrator to be able to use this feature)**, decide the minimum, maximum and current value, along with the display text (or emoji 🥳) in the center and bottom of the widget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The **Gauge** widget lets you create a gauge representation using Home Assistant templating **(user needs to be Administrator to be able to use this feature)**, decide the minimum, maximum, and current value, along with the display text (or emoji 🥳) in the center and bottom of the widget.

```

> ### Available in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Available in

```

- **Value label template:** The text/emoji that will be displayed on the center of the widget
- **Min label template:** The minimum value that will be displayed on the bottom left
- **Max label template:** The maximum value that will be displayed on the bottom right

For gauge type "Normal (single label)":
- **Value template:** The current value which will be used to display the gauge chart.
- **Value label template:** The text/emoji that will be displayed on the center of the widget
- **Label template:** The text/emoji that will be displayed at the bottom center

For gauge type "Capacity":
- **Value template:** The current value which will be used to display the gauge chart.
- **Value label template:** The text/emoji that will be displayed on the center of the widget

There is also an option to run an iOS Legacy Action, this will soon be converted  into "Run script".
<table>
  <tr>
    <td><img src='/assets/ios/gauge-widget.jpeg' alt="Gauge Widget" height="300"/></td>
    <td><img src='/assets/ios/gauge-widget-config.jpeg' alt="Gauge Widget Configuration" height="300"/></td>
  </tr>
</table>

# Details Widget (Advanced)

> Display up to 3 lines of information using Home Assistant templating **(user needs to be Administrator to be able to use this feature)**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Details** widget lets you display up to 3 lines of information using Home Assistant templating **(user needs to be Administrator to be able to use this feature)**.

```
